---
layout: post 
title: Brexaggerations
tags: [politics]
---

> We must build a kind of United States of Europe.
> --<cite>Winston Churchill</cite>

Responses to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union both therein and thereout the country have been pathetic at best.

While it appears true that the Vote Leave camp found support mainly from the less educated who did not understand the implications of Brexit the corollary stands too, supporters of the opposite faction, though admittedly more literate, were utterly unable to compute the actual benefits of the membership to the union, let alone vocalise it. This was particularly true of the latter which would merely use the terms open borders, diversity, together, etc. as synonyms for "good" and never produced an acceptable balance sheet of the exchanges between the EU and the UK.

Mainstream politicians greatly underestimated the Brexit movement and put together a rather poor case. The most flagrant illustration of this must be the debate on sovereignty in which the Remain camp simply did not engage. To say that the European Union is a mere threat to the sovereignty of its member states is an understatement. It openly aims to replace it with supranational institutions and hopes to eventually found the United States of Europe. Instead of acknowledging to the latter and argue in favour of it, Remainers never turned up at the round-table.

The country's applications in 1963 and 1967 were both vetoed by Charles de Gaulle on the grounds that Britain was "incompatible with Europe." And when the Brtitish were finally *allowed to* join in 1973, a whole decade after their first plea, they were met by an already well-acquainted group of nations who perceived them as insincere supporters of their pet project.

Carry this in mind when you read that "[Britain needs the EU](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/04/opinion/boris-johnson-britain-europe-brexit.html?_r=0)" or that "[Britain can't stand aside from Europe](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-3543962/History-teaches-T-stand-aside-Europe-Wellington-Churchill-yes-Lady-Thatcher-confirm.html)" (as if these consisted of arguments on their own) because it is (if true at all) manifestly nor mutual nor reciprocal, and that member states were often more suspicious of Britain than Britain was critical of the union. 

The truth is that the European Union rejected Britain far too often and for far too long and consequently built a union the British could properly not consent to; the EU is found on uncompromising German models and convoluted French bureaucracy. Were the British let in earlier, the European Union would look much different and they would play a key role within it. Tony Blair perhaps takes it a step too far, but certainly hints at the issue. 

> Our problem with the EU is that we didn't invent it.
> --<cite>Tony Blair</cite> 

The United Kingdom along with many other European citizens including myself are actually in favour of a united Europe, just not the one that has been established. 

One can only admit that the European Union has very little traces of democracy. One can only recognise that the union is not under enough scrutiny, it is rarely, if ever, properly criticised in the Inner Six. One must comprehend the significance of ignoring the voice of the people and ratify the scheming Treaty of Lisbon. One can but feel bitter of the debt crisis and the bailout of Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Cyprus. The latter remarks are far more absurd than the UK leaving a union it was only partially in. 

Brexit is unlikely to have the domino effect some say it may trigger. But It is probably true that the debate which occurred in the UK, were it to take place in other member states would result in the same outcome, not because "the people are stupid" but because a thoroughly investigated EU is a tough sell. This does not vindicate the lies told by the likes of Nigel Farage but merely indicates that there are sensible, concrete arguments against a membership of the EU, which justifiy a debate.

The most pitiful response to this mess is that article 50 should not be triggered as it may lead Scotland to leaving the United Kingdom<sup>[[1]](#arg1)</sup>, particularly since Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's first minister, argued for another "independence vote" (it's not exactly independence they are seeking it seems, "union switch referendum" would be more appropriate). First, it does not *cause* division as much as it *reveals* it. Second, such a mindset did not produce the great American and French revolutions. Change always causes ripples, arguments that encourage against the pursuit of different ends in fear of side-effects are pitiful.

*1<a name="arg1"></a>. The argument is laughable, if the United Kingdom leaves the EU Scotland leaves the UK, but if the UK stays within the EU, though the majority of England gets uspet, they, the English, cannot leave the very union of kingdoms they founded...*